# BackupTool
 A Backup Tool for Company purposes
 
## Project Implementation Causes
 
 In order to provide the better assistance and performance on our services, and noticing
 some techtnitians getting some problems to search for users data spread along the entire
 disk, it was needed to create a simple application to do the task.
 
 The program scans for C root folder for directories outside the criteria (which is based on
 the folder name) - thats a feature which I'll develop on the future - and search for specific
 files and extensions among the common users folders ("(C:\Users\username\)"Desktop, Documents, 
 Downloads etc).
 
 At the moment, there are the extensions for searching as follows:
.pst (MS Outlook Personal Mail Local Folder)
.txt (Notepad Text Document)
.xls (MS Excel Compatible Worksheet)
.pdf (Adobe Acrobat PDF Document)
.msg (MS Outlook Mail Message)
.xlsb (MS Excel Binary File)
.xlsx (MS Excel Worksheet)
.docx (MS Word Document)
.doc (MS Word Compatible Document)

And, the directories to search and backup (even without the files with the extensions above), all
on "C:\Users\username":
Desktop
Documents
Downloads
Pictures
Favorites
Links
Music
Video

The logic behind it is simple: first, the program scans	for user directories, which must begin with "t"
(for outsourcing employees), OR must contain numbers (since the user logins with their IDs, like "555627"),
OR must be a temporary backup user folder generated by Winlogon (user folder with ".TEMP" and ".DOMAIN"),
AND doesn't contains the names "Default User", "Administrator", "Lactalis" or "Default".

Then, the program search for, first of all, the Google Chrome's bookmarks file, located on
"C:\Users\username\AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default". Since a user never would save sites
without saving a single file in their profile, I use it as a reference for knowing that a backup can be made.

In case don't find the bookmarks, the program searches for .PST files located on Google Apps Sync folder
("C:\Users\username\AppData\Local\Google\Google Apps Sync"), since my company used GAppSync for transfer
MAPI mails from Google Corporative Mail.

In case situation above turns on false, it still searches for the files with the extensions told above to find
out something.

After this step, with the user folders validated, the program begins for valid folders inside the user profile
folder, one by one, removing from copying system directories and the entire "AppData" folder, since isn't needed.

## Logbook

###### 03 / 17 / 2020 - v0.1.0-20200317-280
 
 Project creation and publishing. Took some time to made the program but I didn't updated it as I coded. Anyway,
 there are some future plans for the program anyway: use a custom script file (as my Post Installation Tool has)
 to customize the extensions, folder names and this way include C: as searching directory for files. I didn't
 developed it from the start because I didn't want a folder with two files (the JAR and the script), but
 only when the program was made I saw I could do it INSIDE the JAR resource folder since the beginning...
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------